Marking the collar.
Fold the collar fabric in half with the
grain running through the collar
peak, right sides together.
Align the raw edge of the collar
attachment side and sew
the fabric together.
First, mark the measurement from point I
to point R on the body
piece, plus 0.3 centimetres.
Measure 0.5 centimetres
from the edge of the lapel.
The collar length mark is also indicated
on the back side with the
grain running straight.
I shall add further detailed annotations.
4 cm from the collar peak.
Mark 10.1 centimetres from the
8.2 cm hemline drop position.
Next, mark a 1-centimetre collar
allowance to the tip of the collar.
The collar width is marked by adding 0.1
centimetres to twice the collar width.
Collar point: 15.1 cm Front drop: 13 cm
Mark the 11-centimetre
measurement from the collar stand.
Tie the collar 4 centimetres
below and the underlap diagonally.
Tie the underlap and
collar tip diagonally.
Mark the mountain-shaped notches on the
collar attachment side
and the facing side.
The facing, like the collar, is folded in
half with the right sides together,
passing the grain line
through to the facing area.
Mark 1 centimetre on the white
paper and make a mountain fold.
Mark the seam allowance at 1.5
centimetres along the grain of the fabric.